---
name: dps-autobackup
description: Denops auto backup
---

=pod

=head1 dps-autobackup

Denops auto backup

=head1 Features X<autobackup-features>

dps-autobackup is a Vim plugin that automatically backup files.

=head1 Installation X<autobackup-installation>

If you use L<folke/lazy.nvim|https://github.com/folke/lazy.nvim>.

=begin lua

  {
    "yukimemi/dps-autobackup",
    lazy = false,
    dependencies = {
      "vim-denops/denops.vim",
    },
  }

=end lua

If you use L<yukimemi/dvpm|https://github.com/yukimemi/dvpm>.

=begin typescript

  dvpm.add({ url: "yukimemi/dps-autobackup" });

=end typescript

=head1 Requirements X<autobackup-requirements>

=item [Deno - A modern runtime for JavaScript and TypeScript](https://deno.land/)

=item [vim-denops/denops.vim: 🐜 An ecosystem of Vim/Neovim which allows developers to write cross-platform plugins in Deno](https://github.com/vim-denops/denops.vim)

=head1 Usage X<autobackup-usage>

No special settings are required.
By default, auto backup current buffer on `CursorHold` and `BufWritePre`.

=head1 Commands X<autobackup-commands>

C<:DisableAutobackup>                                      X<:DisableAutobackup>
Disable auto backup.

C<:EnableAutobackup>                                        X<:EnableAutobackup>
Enable auto backup.

C<:OpenAutobackup>                                            X<:OpenAutobackup>
Show list of backed up files with quickfix.

=head1 Config X<autobackup-config>

No settings are required. However, the following settings can be made if necessary.

C<g:autobackup_debug>                                      X<g:autobackup_debug>
Enable debug messages.
default is v:false

C<g:autobackup_ignore_filetypes>                X<g:autobackup_ignore_filetypes>
A list of filetypes to be ignored.
default is ["log"]

C<g:autobackup_echo>                                        X<g:autobackup_echo>
Whether to output echo messages during backup.
default is v:true

C<g:autobackup_notify>                                    X<g:autobackup_notify>
Whether to `vim.notify` messages during backup. (Neovim only)
default is v:false

C<g:autobackup_dir>                                          X<g:autobackup_dir>
Backup directory.
default is `~/.cache/dps-autobackup`

C<g:autobackup_events>                                    X<g:autobackup_events>
Event lists to do backup.
default is ["CursorHold", "BufWritePre"]

=head1 Example X<autobackup-example>

=begin vim

  let g:autobackup_debug = v:false
  let g:autobackup_echo = v:false
  let g:autobackup_notify = v:true
  let g:autobackup_dir = "~/.cache/autobackup"
  let g:autobackup_events = ["CursorHold", "BufWritePre", "BufRead"]
  let g:autobackup_ignore_filetypes = ["csv", "log"]

=end vim

=head1 License X<autobackup-license>

Licensed under MIT License.

Copyright (c) 2023 yukimemi

=cut
